OSDOCS-7860: Migrate "Federating System and User Metrics to S3 in ROSA" to ROSA product documentation (#65047)
openshift/openshift-docs: rosa_tutorials/rosa-mobb-federating-system-user-metrics-s3-rosa.adoc

== Deploying Operators

. Add the MOBB chart repository to your Helm:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$    helm repo add mobb https://rh-mobb.github.io/helm-charts/
----

. Update your repositories:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$    helm repo update
----

. Use the `mobb/operatorhub` chart to deploy the needed Operators:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$    helm upgrade -n $echNAMESPACE custom-metrics-operators \
$      mobb/operatorhub --version 0.1.1 --install \
      --values https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rh-mobb/helm-charts/main/charts/rosa-thanos-s3/files/operatorhub.yaml
----

== Deploying the Thanos store gateway

. Deploy the ROSA Thanos S3 Helm chart:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$    helm upgrade -n $NAMESPACE rosa-thanos-s3 --install mobb/rosa-thanos-s3 \
      --set "aws.roleArn=$ROLE_ARN" \
      --set "rosa.clusterName=$CLUSTER_NAME"
----

. Append remote write settings to the user-workload-monitoring configuration to forward user workload metrics to Thanos:

.. Ensure that the user workload configuration map exists:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$    oc -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring get \
      configmaps user-workload-monitoring-config
----

> .. If the config doesn't exist run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. If the config does not exist run:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f -
$ apiVersion: v1
$ kind: ConfigMap
$ metadata:
  name: user-workload-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-user-workload-monitoring
$ data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheus:
      remoteWrite:
        - url: "http://thanos-receive.${NAMESPACE}.svc.cluster.local:9091/api/v1/receive"
EOF
----

.. Otherwise update it with the following:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$    oc -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring edit \
      configmaps user-workload-monitoring-config
      data:
        config.yaml: |
          ...
          prometheus:
          ...
            remoteWrite:
              - url: "http://thanos-receive.thanos-receiver.svc.cluster.local:9091/api/v1/receive"
----

== Ensure that metrics are flowing by logging into Grafana

> . Obtain the route URL for Grafana (remember it's https) and log in using username `root` and the updated password or the default of `secret`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Obtain the route URL for Grafana (remember it is https) and log in using username `root` and the updated password or the default of `secret`.
```
